In this concept, let's talk about some of the famous ERC standards.
We have ERC-20, ERC-223,
ERC-721, and then ERC-621, and also ERC-827.
ERC-20, this is the most common and well-known standard with an all crypto community,
more than 90 percent if not all issued ICO tokens on deuterium implement the standard.
The key benefit is standardization,
any application or other smart contract can interact with the token
in a standard manner without a need of knowing other details about the token.
Therefore, we have a very pleasant way to create any ICO token,
and have a standard way to interact with all of them,
like they are all the same.
All the application will need to know
the deuterium token address that
implements the standard because the functions are predefined.
ERC-20 has many benefits including allowing wallets to
provide token balances for a 100 of different tokens in a very standardized way,
and also to be able to transfer tokens from one address to another address.
I also wanted to mention that it is used to create fungible tokens,
what that means is that all tokens are same.
So, every token created by this contract could be exchangeable with another token.
Next, let's talk about ERC-223.
Now, this is a proposal that was introduced by a developer who
decided to solve issues with the current ERC-20 standard for tokens.
Advantages, it provides the possibility of avoiding accidentally
last tokens inside contracts that are not designed to work with sent tokens.
However, these accidental transfers,
which are uncommon already,
will probably become even more uncommon with
ENS that stands for Ethereum Name Service in future.
Now, ERC-223 transferred to contracts,
consumes less gas than ERC-20,
so that's an advantage.
Disadvantages, ERC-223 is a proposal right now,
not a standard, therefore,
there are none of the high-profile ICO tokens that use the standard.
Also, it is not yet implemented in any of
the production tokens that I found from my research.
Exchanges might need to do some special modifications in order to support such tokens.
There are options that some of the exchanges might not be prepared for this yet.
Now, this standard also creates fungible tokens,
so all tokens have the same value.
Moving on, let's talk about ERC-621.
ERC-621 is just an extension of ERC-20 token standard.
It adds two additional functions: increase supply and decrease supply.
Now, we will talk about all the functions when we get to ERC-20,
so you will understand a little bit better,
but again just to recap ERC-621 adds two additional functions,
increase supply and decrease supply.
This increase and decrease the token supply in circulation.
We will talk about token supply more in detail very soon.
ERC-20 only allows a single token issuance event,
this restrict the supply to certain amount which can't be changed.
ERC-621 proposes that total supply can be modified.
Let's talk about ERC-827.
This is one of the latest token standards.
It is an improvement to the standard interface ERC-20,
with method that allow the execution of calls inside transfer and approvals.
This standard provides basic functionality to transfer
tokens as well as allow tokens to be approved,
so they can be spent by another on-chain third party.
It also allows to execute calls on transfers and approvals.
This extension of the ERC-20 interface allows any tokens on
deuterium to be reused by other applications from wallet to even decentralized exchanges.
The ERC-20 tokens standard is widely accepted,
but it only allows the transfer of value with ERC-827,
deuterium users are available to transfer value and data, both on transactions.
Let's talk about ERC-721,
the goal of this proposal is to create a non-fungible token.
In ERC-20 and ERC-223 standards,
they have a supply of tokens,
the tokens are fungible,
what that means is that single unit of that token is equal to any other unit.
This makes it easy to treat those tokens as
all of the tokens supply can be treated in the same manner.
However, there are various cases where you need to have an identical tokens,
which are used within the platform,
and add some extra parameters and price them differently.
For instance, we could have a token which represents some part of the real estate object,
and each token might have some different parameters added to it.
The famous CryptoKitties is an ERC-721 token.
Now such a standard makes it easy to create
marketplaces for multiple non-fungible tokens.